XXGDB(1.10)                                                        XXGDB(1.10)



NAME
       xxgdb - X window system interface to the gdb debugger.

SYNOPSIS
       xxgdb  [  -toolkitoption  ...  ]  [-xxgdboption ... ] [-gdboption ... ]
       [objfile [ corefile ]]

DESCRIPTION
       Xxgdb is a graphical user interface to the gdb  debugger  under  the  X
       Window  System.   It  provides  visual feedback and mouse input for the
       user to control program execution through breakpoints, to  examine  and
       traverse  the  function  call stack, to display values of variables and
       data structures, and to browse source files and functions.

       Xxgdb allows initial gdb commands stored in the  file  .gdbinit  to  be
       executed  immediately  after  the  symbolic  information  is  read.  If
       .gdbinit does not exist in  the  current  directory,  the  user  home
       directory  is  searched (~/.gdbinit). Option -nx can be used to prevent
       xxgdb from executing this file. Option -i can be  used  to  change  the
       file name of command file.

       Objfile  is  an object file produced by a compiler with the appropriate
       option (-g) specified to produce symbol table information for gdb.

       If a file named core exists in the current directory or a  corefile  is
       specified,  xxgdb  can be used to examine the state of the program when
       the core dump occurred.

       The name of the debugger invoked by xxgdb is, by default, gdb,  but  it
       can  be overridden with the environment variable XXGDB_DEBUGGER or with
       the db_name option.

OPTIONS
       Xxgdb accepts all of the standard X Toolkit command line  options  (see
       X(1)),  and  all the gdb options (see gdb(1)), plus the following xxgdb
       specific options:

       -db_name
              Specify the name of the debugger to override the default  "gdb".
              WARNING : by default prompt is the name of the debugger enclosed
              in parenthesis followed by a space. So if the  prompt  is  still
              "(gdb) ", you HAVE TO use -db_prompt "gdb"

       -db_prompt
              Specify  to xxgdb what is the debugger prompt. The default is to
              expect the prompt to be the name of  the  debugger  enclosed  in
              parenthesis followed by a space (eg, "(gdb) ").

       -i     Specify the filename of initial gdb command file. The default is
              ".gdbinit".

       -nx    Do not execute .gdbinit file (or file specified with -i)

       -bigicon
              Uses a 64x64 icon instead of the default 48x48 icon.

SUBWINDOWS
       Xxgdb consists of the following subwindows:

       File Window         Display the full pathname of the file displayed  in
                           the  source  window,  and  the  line  number of the
                           caret.

       Source Window       Display the contents of a source file.

       Message Window      Display the execution status and error messages  of
                           xxgdb .

       Command Window      Provide a list of the common gdb commands which are
                           invoked by simply clicking the LEFT mouse button.

       Dialogue Window     Provide a typing interface to gdb.

       Display Window      Provide a window for displaying variables each time
                           execution stops.

       Popup Windows       Provide windows for displaying variables (see "Dis-
                           playing C Data Structures" below).

       The relative sizes of the source window, command window, and  the  dia-
       logue  window can be adjusted by dragging the grip (a small square near
       the right edge of a horizontal border) with the LEFT mouse button down.

SELECTION
       Text  selection  in  the source window is modified to make it easier to
       select C expressions.  LEFT mouse button down selects a C expression by
       highlighting  it  in  reverse-video.  LEFT mouse button down also posi-
       tions the caret and updates the line label accordingly.

       C expression selection is based on the resource delimiters which deter-
       mines the set of characters that delimits a C expression.  (The default
       word selection behavior in the Athena text widget selects a word delim-
       ited  by white spaces.)  Text selection adjustment is possible by hold-
       ing the LEFT mouse button down and dragging.

       A LEFT mouse button click with the SHIFT button down prints  the  value
       of the expression selected.


SCROLLBAR
       Pressing the LEFT mouse button scrolls the text forward, whereas press-
       ing the RIGHT mouse button scrolls the text backward.   The  amount  of
       scrolling  depends  on the distance of the pointer button away from the
       top of the scrollbar.  If the button is  pressed  at  the  top  of  the
       scrollbar, only one line of text is scrolled.  If the button is pressed
       at the bottom of the scrollbar, one screenful of text is scrolled.

       Pressing the MIDDLE mouse button changes  the  thumb  position  of  the
       scrollbar.  Dragging the MIDDLE mouse button down moves the thumb along
       and changes the text displayed.


IOWIN COMMAND
       If compiled, with the right option, xxgdb can use a separate io  window
       to  talk  to  gdb,  so  program output is not confused with gdb output.
       Type command owinin Dialogue Window to create io window. If you get
       ndefined commanderror message, then xxgdb was not compiled for that
       feature. The program xxgdbiowin is used for this io window.


COMMAND BUTTONS
   Execution Commands
       run         Begin program execution.

       cont        Continue execution from where it stopped.

       next        Execute one source line, without stepping into any function
                   call.

       step        Execute  one  source  line, stepping into a function if the
                   source line contains a function call.

       finish      Continue execution until the  selected  procedure  returns;
                   the current procedure is used if none is selected.



   Breakpoint Commands
       break     Stop  program  execution  at  the  line  or  in  the function
                 selected.  To set a breakpoint  in  the  program,  place  the
                 caret at the start of the source line or on the function name
                 and click the break button.  A stop sign will appear next  to
                 the source line.

       tbreak    Set a breakpoint enabled only for one stop.  This is the same
                 as the break button except the  breakpoint  is  automatically
                 disabled the first time it hit.

       delete    Remove  the  breakpoint  on  the  source line selected or the
                 breakpoint number selected.

       show brkpts
                 Show the current breakpoints (both active and inactive).



   Stack Commands
       stack     Show a stack trace of the functions called.

       up        Move up one level on the call stack.

       down      Move down one level on the call stack.



   Data Display Commands
       print     Print the value of a selected expression. (also see "Display-
                 ing C Data Structures" below)

       print *   Print  the  value  of  the  object the selected expression is
                 pointing to.  (also see "Displaying C Data Structures" below)

       display   Display  the  value  of  a selected expression in the display
                 window, updating its value every time execution stops.

       undisplay Stop displaying the value of the selected expression  in  the
                 display window.  If the selected expression is a constant, it
                 refers to the display number associated with an expression in
                 the display window.

       args      Print the arguments of the selected frame.

       show display
                 Show  the names of currently displayed expressions.       .IP
                 "locals" Print the local variables of the selected frame.

       stack     Print a backtrace of the entire stack.



   Miscellaneous Commands
       search Pop up a search panel which allows both forward (>>) and reverse
              (<<)  search  of  text strings in the source file.  Hitting car-
              riage return after entering  the  search  string  will  begin  a
              forward search and pop down the search panel.

       file   Pop  up  a directory browser that allows the user to move up and
              down in the directory tree, to select a text  file  to  be  dis-
              played,  to  select  an executable file to debug, or to select a
              core file to debug.  Directory entries are marked with a  trail-
              ing  slash ( and executables with a trailing asterisk (.
              Filenames beginning with a dot (  or  ending  with  a  tilde
              ( are not listed in the menu.

       search Pop up a search panel which allows both forward (>>) and reverse
              (<<) search of text strings in the source  file.   Hitting  car-
              riage  return after entering the search string will begin a for-
              ward search and pop down the search panel.

       yes    Send (yes) to gdb. To be used when  gdb  requires  a  yes/no
              response.

       no     Send   (no)  to  gdb.  To be used when gdb requires a yes/no
              response.

       quit   Exit xxgdb.



   Displaying C Data Structures
       Xxgdb provides some primitive  support  for  graphically  displaying  C
       structures  and  the ability of following pointers.  Pressing the RIGHT
       mouse button on the print (or print  *)  command  button  displays  the
       value  of the selected expression (or the value the selected expression
       is pointing to) in a popup.  If the value is a pointer or  a  structure
       containing  pointers, the user can examine the value of the object that
       pointer is pointing to by clicking the pointer value.  This will create
       another popup that displays the object the pointer points to.  Clicking
       the label of the popup pops down itself and all of its descendants.

X DEFAULTS
       To change the default values of widget resources  used  in  xxgdb,  you
       need  to reference the widgets by name or by class.  The widget hierar-
       chies for the main window, the file menu, the search  dialog  box,  and
       the  popup  data  display  used in xxgdb are shown as follows, with the
       name of the widget followed by the name of its class in parentheses:

       Main window:
           toplevel (ToplevelShell)
             vpane (Paned)
            fileWindow (Form)
              fileLabel (Label)
              lineLabel (Label)
            sourceForm (Form)
              sourceWindow (AsciiText)
            messageWindow (Label)
            commandWindow (Box)
              run (Command)
              cont (Command)
              next (Command)
              step (Command)
              finish (Command)
              break (Command)
              tbreak (Command)
              delete (Command)
              up (Command)
              down (Command)
              print (Command)
              print * (Command)
              display (Command)
              undisplay (Command)
              args (Command)
              locals (Command)
              stack (Command)
              search (Command)
              file (Command)
              show display (Command)
              show brkpts (Command)
              yes (Command)
              no (Command)
              quit (Command)
            dialogWindow (AsciiText)
            displayWindow (AsciiText)

       File menu:
           File Directory (TransientShell)
             popup (Paned)
            fileMenuLabel (Label)
            fileMenu (List)
            cancelButton (Command)

       Search dialog box:
           Search (TransientShell)
             searchPopup (Dialog)
            << (Command)
            >> (Command)
            DONE (Command)

       Data display popup:
           Data Popup (TransientShell)
             popup (Form)
            label (Label)
            dataDpyWindow (AsciiText)

       In addition to the standard  X  resources,  xxgdb  uses  the  following
       application-specific  resources  for  user customization.  The value in
       parentheses is the default value.

       bell   If True, the bell is on. (True)

       displayWindow
              If True, the display window appears on start up. (False)

       delimiters
              The   set    of    delimiters    for    word    selection.    ("
              !%^&*()+=~|;:{},/#<?

       stop_color
              Color of the stop sign. (Red)

       arrow_color
              Color of the arrow sign. (Blue)

       updown_color
              Color of the updown sign. (Blue)

       bomb_color
              Color of the bomb sign. (Red)

       dataDpyMaxHeight
              Maximum height of the data display window. (300)

       dataDpyMaxWidth
              Maximum width of the data display window. (600)

       prompt The prompt string used in xxgdb. ("(xxgdb) ")

       db_name
              The name of the debugger program. ("gdb")

       db_prompt
              The prompt string of the debugger program. ("(gdb) ")

       gdbinit
              The filename of initial command file. (".gdbinit")

       nx     If True, xxgdb will not execute .gdbinit at start-up. (False)

       tabstop
              When displaying source code, the width (in spaces) of a tab. (8)



FILES
       a.out          default object file
       core           default core file
       ~/XDbx         resources file (or /usr/lib/X11/app-defaults/XDbx)
       .gdbinit       local initial commands file
       ~/.gdbinit     user initial commands file

SEE ALSO
       X(1), gdb(1)

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright 1989 The University  of  Texas  at  Austin.   Copyright  1990
       Microelectronics   and   Computer  Technology  Corporation.   Copyright
       1990-1994 Thomson Consumer Electronics, Inc.

AUTHOR
       Po Cheung.  Pierre Willard.




X Version 11                     November 1994                     XXGDB(1.10)
